Switch 
 
 German Legends   
The following true story took place in the year 1580.  Near Breslau there 
lived a distinguished nobleman who had a large crop of hay every summer 
which his subjects were required harvest for him.  One year there was a 
new mother among his harvest workers, a woman who had barely had a week 
to recover from the birth of her child.  When she saw that she could not 
refuse the nobleman's decree, she took her child with her, placed it on a 
small clump of grass, and left it alone while she helped with the 
haymaking.  After she had worked a good while, she returned to her child 
to nurse it.  She looked at it, screamed aloud, hit her hands together 
above her head, and cried out in despair, that this was not her child:  
It sucked the milk from her so greedily and howled in such an inhuman 
manner that it was nothing like the child she knew.
  
As is usual in such cases, she kept the child for several days, but it 
was so ill-behaved that the good woman nearly collapsed.  She told her 
story to the nobleman.  He said to her:  "Woman, if you think that this 
is not your child, then do this one thing.  Take it out to the meadow 
where you left your previous child and beat it hard with a switch.  Then 
you will witness a miracle."
  
The woman followed the nobleman's advice.  She went out and beat the 
child with a switch until it screamed loudly.  Then the Devil brought 
back her stolen child, saying:  "There, you have it!"  And with that he 
took his own child away.
  
This story is often told and is known by both the young and the old in 
and around Breslau.