Two farm workers slept together in one room. One of them was ridden by
a mahrt so often that he finally asked his comrade the next time it
happened to stop up the knothole in the door so they could capture the
mahrt. 
 The next time he was miserably moaning and groaning in his sleep, his
comrade did what he had been asked, then called his friend by name.
Awakening, he quickly reached out and grabbed a piece of straw in his
hand. Although it twisted and turned, he held it tightly until his comrade
had stopped up the knothole. He then laid the piece of straw on the table,
and they both fell asleep until morning. 
 When they awoke they saw a beautiful girl behind the stove. They nearly
parted ways disputing whom she belonged to. The one who had stopped up the
knothole said that she should be his, because if he had not done that, she
would have escaped. The other one said that she belonged to him, because
he had captured her. 
 Finally the one who stopped up the knothole gave in, and the other one
married the girl. They had children and lived together quite happily.  
 However, the woman often begged her husband to show her the knothole
where she had entered the room. She said that she would have no peace
until she had seen it. The man resisted her pleas for a long time, but
once she begged him especially earnestly, saying that she could hear her
mother in England calling the pigs, and asked him to allow see her again
just once.  
 Finally he softened and gave in. He went with her and showed her where
she had entered the room, but in that instant she flew out through the
knothole and never returned.