An old witch, in days of yore, lived in this neighborhood; and whenever
she wanted money she would assume the shape of a hare, and would send out
her grandson to tell a certain huntsman who lived hard by that he had seen
a hare sitting at such a particular spot, for which he always received the
reward of sixpence.
 After this deception had many times been practiced, the dogs turned
out, the hare pursued, and often seen but never caught, a sportsman of the
party began to suspect, in the language of the tradition, "that the devil
was in the dance," and there would be no end to it.
 The matter was discussed, a justice consulted, and a clergyman to boot;
and it was thought that, however clever the devil might be, law and church
combined would be more than a match for him. It was therefore agreed that,
as the boy was singularly regular in the hour at which he came to announce
the sight of the hare, all should be in readiness for a start the instant
such information was given; and a neighbor of the witch, nothing friendly
to her, promised to let the parties know directly the old woman and her
grandson left the cottage and went off together, the one to be hunted, and
the other to set on the hunt.
 The news came, the hounds were unkenneled, and huntsmen and sportsmen
set off with surprising speed. The witch, now a hare, and her little
colleague in iniquity, did not expect so very speedy a turnout; so that
the game was pursued at a desperate rate, and the boy, forgetting himself
in a moment of alarm, was heard to exclaim, "Run, Granny, run! Run for
your life!"
 At last the pursuers lost the hare, and she once more got safe into the
cottage by a little hole in the door, not large enough to admit a hound in
chase. The huntsman and all the squires with their train lent a hand to
break open the door, yet could not do it till the parson and the justice
came up; but as law and church were certainly designed to break through
iniquity, even so did they now succeed in bursting the magic bonds that
opposed them.
 Upstairs they all went. There they found the old hag bleeding, and
covered with wounds, and still out of breath. She denied she was a hare,
and railed at the whole party.
 "Call up the hounds," said the huntsman, "and let us see what they take
her to be. Maybe we may yet have another hunt."
 On hearing this the old woman cried quarter. The boy dropped on his
knees, and begged hard for mercy -- mercy was granted on condition of its
being received together with a good whipping; and the huntsman, having
long practiced amongst the hounds, now tried his hand on their game.
 Thus the old woman escaped a worse fate for the time present; but on
being afterwards put on her trial for bewitching a young woman and making
her spit pins, the tale just told was given as evidence against her,
before a particularly learned judge, and a remarkably sagacious jury, and
the old woman finished her days, like a martyr, at the stake.