Prince Llewellyn had a favorite greyhound named Gellert that had been
given to him by his father-in-law, King John. He was as gentle as a lamb
at home but a lion in the chase. One day Llewellyn went to the chase and
blew his horn in front of his castle. All his other dogs came to the call
but Gellert never answered it. So he blew a louder blast on his horn and
called Gellert by name, but still the greyhound did not come. At last
Prince Llewellyn could wait no longer and went off to the hunt without
Gellert. He had little sport that day because Gellert was not there, the
swiftest and boldest of his hounds. 
 He turned back in a rage to his castle, and as he came to the gate, who
should he see but Gellert come bounding out to meet him. But when the
hound came near him, the prince was startled to see that his lips and
fangs were dripping with blood. Llewellyn started back and the greyhound
crouched down at his feet as if surprised or afraid at the way his master
greeted him. 
 Now Prince Llewellyn had a little son a year old with whom Gellert used
to play, and a terrible thought crossed the prince's mind that made him
rush towards the child's nursery. And the nearer he came the more blood
and disorder he found about the rooms. He rushed into it and found the
child's cradle overturned and daubed with blood. 
 Prince Llewellyn grew more and more terrified, and sought for his
little son everywhere. He could find him nowhere but only signs of some
terrible conflict in which much blood had been shed. At last he felt sure
the dog had destroyed his child, and shouting to Gellert, "Monster, thou
hast devoured my child," he drew out his sword and plunged it in the
greyhound's side, who fell with a deep yell and still gazing in his
master's eyes. 
 As Gellert raised his dying yell, a little child's cry answered it from
beneath the cradle, and there Llewellyn found his child unharmed and just
awakened from sleep. But just beside him lay the body of a great gaunt
wolf all torn to pieces and covered with blood. Too late, Llewellyn
learned what had happened while he was away. Gellert had stayed behind to
guard the child and had fought and slain the wolf that had tried to
destroy Llewellyn's heir. 
 In vain was all Llewellyn's grief; he could not bring his faithful dog
to life again. So he buried him outside the castle walls within sight of
the great mountain of Snowdon, where every passerby might see his grave,
and raised over it a great cairn of stones. And to this day the place is
called Beth Gellert, or the Grave of Gellert.