"Black Airt" was firmly believed in [in the north-east of Scotland]. If
the proficients in this science did not make a compact with Satan, they
were very much in communion with him. He was regarded as the fountain from
which it sprang. It was looked upon as a kind of wisdom by which men came
to be able to know the hidden essence of things, the virtues of herbs for
cure or poison, to have power over nature in many of her workings, power
to cure disease, to guard against witches and fairies, to remove their
spells, to discover thieves, and even to see into the future. Under the
teaching they got, some of the students reached a high degree of
expertness, and became a match for the devil himself in cunning, and were
even able to outwit him. 
 Spain and Italy, particularly Italy, were the countries in which the
science was most flourishing, and in which it was taught most efficiently,
and thither all, who wished to become adepts in it, went. Its study was
carried on in dark rooms under famous teachers; and, on leaving the
classrooms, the students had to pass through a long black passage at the
end of which stood the prince of darkness watching to catch the last one.
 
 No sooner had the last word of the professor's lecture been spoken than
out rushed the students, and made for the light pell-mell through the
black passage shouting, "Deel tack the hinmost!" 
 The devil, on one occasion, clutched at a student. He met one who was
more than a match for him. The student called out, "There is another
behind me!" 
 His sable majesty looked first to this side, and then to that. He saw
what seemed a man. He rushed upon it and seized it. It was the student's
shadow. Ever after the student was shadowless.