Death, of course, is not always looked upon as punishment. In fact, in
many religious stories virtuous people (often children) are "called home,"
frequently under miraculous circumstances.  For these blessed individuals,
death is a divine release from the sorrows of this world. 
 Once there was a poor woman who had two children. The youngest
one had to go into the forest every day to find wood. Once a little child
helped him gather the wood, carried it to the house, and then disappeared.
The child told his mother about the helper, but she didn't believe him.
One day the helper child brought a rose and told the child that when the
rose was in full blossom he would come again. The mother put the rose into
some water. One morning the child did not get up; the mother went to his
bed and found him lying there dead. On that same morning the rose came
into full blossom. 
 Source: Retold from  The Rose  (Grimm,  Children's Legends,
 no. 3). For similar accounts of foretold deaths, see Grimm,  German
Legends,  nos. 263-267. 
 Religious legends are told throughout the world, and those describing
premonitions and forewarnings of impending death are particularly
widespread and persistent. Such accounts spontaneously emerge at solemn
family gatherings, then disappear when the mood brightens. They surface
again when needed -- unrehearsed at other sober occasions, or
sophisticatedly refined in universal myths and in the great tragedies of
world literature. At their primeval level, these accounts describe only
modest miracles: the opening of a flower, the appearance of a bird, the
dream of a departed loved one, or perhaps nothing more portentous than an
uncanny feeling. They do not claim the power to change the course of human
destiny, nor do they offer explanations to life's unfathomed mysteries.
Instead, they are expressions of faith in continuity and of hope for
justice, even at times when it is painfully evident that, on this earth at
least, we do not live happily ever after.