One winter the renowned Doctor Faustus came to the Count of Anhalt.
Seeing that the count's wife was pregnant, Doctor Faustus asked her if she
did not desire something special to eat, as is often the case with
expectant mothers. He said that with the help of his magic powers he could
get her anything she wanted. The countess graciously accepted his friendly
offer and told him that a great desire of hers would be satisfied if she
could have some fresh fruit such as grapes, cherries, and peaches, instead
of the dried confection and nuts that she currently had. But she thought
that neither he nor any other magician could get such things in the middle
of a harsh winter. 
 Doctor Faustus took three silver platters, set them in front of the
dining room window, muttered a magic formula, then soon returned with
fresh fruit. The first platter was filled with apples, pears, and peaches;
the second with cherries, apricots, and plums; and the third filled with
red and green grapes. He invited the countess to partake of the fruit,
which she did with great pleasure. 
 When it came time for Doctor Faustus to take leave of Anhalt, he
requested the count and the countess to accompany him on a walk, for he
wanted to show them something new. This they did, accompanied by the
count's entourage. Approaching the castle gate, they saw a newly
constructed palace on the hill called Romb√ºhl. Water birds were
swimming in its broad moats. The palace had five towers. As the party came
closer, they found that two of the towers and the outer yard were alive
with a menagerie of rare animals which were walking a jumping about
inside, without injuring one another. There were apes, monkeys, bears,
chamois, ostriches, as well as other animals. 
 An elaborate breakfast awaited them in one of the halls. Doctor Faust's
familiar, Christoph Wagner, served as waiter, and music was sounding from
an unseen source. The food and wine were such that everyone ate and drank
with great pleasure until they were full. 
 After spending more than an hour in this place, the party left the
beautiful palace. As they were approaching Anhalt Castle they looked back
at the new palace and saw and heard it go up in flames, with the sound of
rifles and canons. Faustus and Wagner had disappeared, and they all were
suddenly as hungry as lions. They had to have breakfast once again, for
everything that they had eaten had been merely an illusion.