When Dr. Faust was in Heilbronn, performing his troublesome arts
throughout the region, he often went to Boxberg Castle, where he was
always courteously received.  
 Once he was there on a cold winter's day, strolling with the lords and
ladies of the palace along the garden paths on the east side of the
castle. The ladies complained about the frost, and he immediately caused
the sun to shine warmly, the snow-covered ground to turn green, and a mass
of violets and beautiful flowers of every kind to spring forth. Then at
his command the trees blossomed, and -- following the desires of the group
-- apples, plums, peaches, and other good fruit ripened on the branches.
Finally he caused grape vines to grow and bear grapes. He then invited
each of his companions to cut off a grape, but not before he gave the
signal to do so. When all of them were ready to cut away he removed the
deception from their eyes, and each one saw that he was holding a knife
against the nose of the person next to him. The part of the garden where
this took place has ever since been called "the violet garden."  
 Another time Faust left Boxberg Castle at a quarter past eleven in
order to be at a banquet in Heilbronn at the last strike of twelve
o'clock. He got into his carriage hitched to four black horses and drove
away like the wind, and he did indeed arrive in Heilbronn punctually at
the strike of twelve.  
 A man working in a field saw how horned spirits paved the way before
the carriage, while others pulled up the paving stones from behind and
carried them away, thus destroying every trace of the pavement.