Kabil and Habil, or Cain and Abel, with their two sisters, were the first
children born to Adam and Eve. Adam, by Allah's direction, ordered Cain to
marry Abel's twin sister, and that Abel should marry Cain's, for it being
the common opinion that marriages ought not to take place with those very
near akin, such as their own sisters, it seemed reasonable to supose that
they ought to take those of the remoter degree, but this Cain refused to,
because his sister was the handsomer. 
Hereupon Adam told them to take their offerings to Allah, thereby
referring the dispute to His determination. Cain's offering was a sheaf of
the very worst of his corn, but Abel's a fat lamb of the best of his
flock.  
Allah having declared His acceptance of the latter in a visible manner,
Cain said to his brother, "I will certainly kill you."
 
Abel was the stronger of the two, and would easily have prevailed against
his brother, but he answered, "If you stretch forth your hand against me,
to slay me, I will not stretch forth my hand against you to slay you, for
I fear Allah, the Lord of all creatures."
 
So Cain began to consider in what way he should effect the murder, and as
he was doing so, the devil appeared to him in human shape, and showed him
how to do it, by crushing the head of a bird between two stones. 
 
Cain, having committed the fratricide, became exceedingly troubled in his
mind, and carried the dead body on his shoulders for a considerable time,
not knowing where to conceal it, till it stank horribly. And then Allah
taught him to bury it by the example of a raven, who, having killed
another raven in his presence, dug a pit with his claws and beak and
buried him therein.