March ab Meirchion was lord of Castellmarch, in Lleyn. He ruled over
leagues of rich land, tilled by hundreds of willing and obedient vassals.
He had great possessions, fleet horses, greyhounds, hawks, countless black
cattle and sheep, and a great herd of swine. (But few possessed pigs at
that time, and their flesh was esteemed better than the flesh of oxen.
Arthur himself sought to have one of March's sows.) In his palace he had
much treasure of gold, silver, and Conway pearls, and all men envied him.
 
 But March was not happy. He had a secret, and day and night he was torn
with dread lest it should be discovered.  He had horse's ears!   
 To no one was the secret known except his barber. This man he compelled
to take a solemn oath that he would not reveal his deformity to any living
soul. If he wittingly or unwittingly should let anyone know that March's
ears were other than human, March swore that he would cut his head off.
 
 The barber became as unhappy as March. Indeed his wretchedness was
greater, because his fate would be worse if the secret were revealed.
March would undergo ridicule, which is certainly a serious thing, but the
barber would undergo decapitation, which is much more serious.  
 The secret disagreed with his constitution so violently that he lost
his appetite and his color, and began to fall into a decline.  
 So ill did he become that he had to call in a physician. This man was
skilled in his craft, and he said to the barber, "You are being killed by
a suppressed secret. Unless you communicate it to someone you will soon be
in your grave."  
 This announcement did not give the barber much consolation. He
explained to the physician that if he did as he was directed he would lose
his head. If in any event he had to come to the end of his earthly career,
he preferred being interred with his head joined to, rather than separated
from, his trunk.  
 The physician then suggested that he should tell his secret to the
ground.  
 The barber thought there was not much danger to his cervical vertebrae
(this is the learned name for neck bones) if he did this, and adopted the
suggestion. He was at once relieved. His color and appetite gradually came
back, and before long he was as strong and well as he had ever been.  
 Now it happened that a fine crop of reeds grew on the spot where the
barber whispered his secret to the ground.  
 March prepared a great feast, and sent for one of Maelgwn Gwynedd's
pipers, who was the best piper in the word, to make music for his guests.
 
 On his way to Castellmarch, the piper observed these fine reeds, and as
his old pipe was getting worn out, he cut them and made an excellent new
pipe. When his guests had eaten and drunk, March ordered the piper to
play.  
 What was the surprise of all when the pipe gave out no music, but only
the words, "Horse's ears for March ab Meirchion, horse's ears for March ab
Meirchion," over and over again.  
 March drew his sword and would have slain the piper, but the hapless
musician begged for mercy. He was not to blame, he said. He had tried to
play his wonted music, but the pipe was charmed, and do what he would, he
could get nothing out of it but the words, "Horse's ears for March ab
Meirchion."  
 March tried the pipe himself, but even he could not elicit any strains
from it, but only the words, "Horse's ears for March ab Meirchion."  
 So he forgave the piper and made no further effort to conceal his
deformity.