In the beginning there lived one man and one woman, Toglai and Toglibon. 
Their first children were a boy and a girl. When they were old enough, the 
boy and the girl went far away across the waters seeking a good place to 
live in. Nothing more was heard of them until their children, the 
Spaniards and Americans, came back. After the first boy and girl left, 
other children were born to the couple; but they all remained at Cibolan 
on Mount Apo with their parents, until Toglai and Toglibon died and became 
spirits.  Soon after that there came a great drought which lasted for 
three years. All the waters dried up, so that there were no rivers, and no 
plants could live.   
"Surely," said the people, "Manama is punishing us, and we must go 
elsewhere to find food and a place to dwell in."   
So they started out. Two went in the direction of the sunset, carrying 
with them stones from Cibolan River. After a long journey they reached a 
place where were broad fields of cogon grass and an abundance of water, 
and there they made their home. Their children still live in that place 
and are called Magindanau, because of the stones which the couple carried 
when they left Cibolan.   
Two children of Toglai and Toglibon went to the south, seeking a home, and 
they carried with them women's baskets (baraan). When they found a good 
spot, they settled down. Their descendants, still dwelling at that place, 
are called Baraan or Bilaan, because of the women's baskets.   
So two by two the children of the first couple left the land of their 
birth. In the place where each settled a new people developed, and thus it 
came about that all the tribes in the world received their names from 
things that the people carried out of Cibolan, or from the places where 
they settled.   
All the children left Mount Apo save two (a boy and a girl), whom hunger 
and thirst had made too weak to travel. One day when they were about to 
die the boy crawled out to the field to see if there was one living thing, 
and to his surprise he found a stalk of sugarcane growing lustily. He 
eagerly cut it, and enough water came out to refresh him and his sister 
until the rains came. Because of this, their children are called Bagobo.