Once upon a time there was a girl called Saddaedda, who was crazy. One
day, when her mother had gone into the country and she was left alone in
the house, she went into a church where the funeral service was being read
over the body of a rich lady. The girl hid herself in the confessional. No
one knew she was there. So, when the other people had gone, she was left
alone with the corpse. It was dressed out in a rose-colored robe and
everything else becoming, and it had earrings in its ears and rings on its
fingers. These the girl took off, and then she began to undress the body.
When she came to the stockings she drew off one easily, but at the other
she had to pull so hard that at last the leg came off with it. Saddaedda
took the leg, carried it to her lonely home, and locked it up in a box. At
night came the dead lady and knocked at the door. 
 "Who's there?" said the girl. 
 "It is I," answered the corpse. "Give me back my leg and stocking!" 
 But Saddaedda paid no heed to the request. Next day she prepared a
feast and invited some of her playfellows to spend the night with her.
They came, feasted, and went to sleep. At midnight the dead woman began to
knock at the door and to repeat last night's request. Saddaedda took no
notice of the noise, but her companions, whom it awoke, were horrified,
and as soon as they could, they ran away. On the third night just the same
happened. On the fourth she could persuade only one girl to keep her
company. 
 
On the fifth she was left entirely alone. The corpse came, forced open the
door, strode up to Saddaedda's bed, and strangled her. Then the dead woman
opened the box, took out her leg and stocking, and carried them off with
her to her grave.