Folk Tales and Fairy Lore in Gaelic and 
English 
There once lived in Glengarry a widow with a young child who was a boy.  
One day she went to the well for water; and when she was returning to the 
house, she heard the child, whom she had left sleeping quietly in the 
cradle, screaming as if he were in great pain.  She hastened in, a gave 
him a drink as quickly as she could.  This quieted him for a little 
while, but he soon broke out again as badly as ever.  She gave him 
another drink; and while he was at her breast she looked at him and saw 
that he had two teeth in his mouth, each more than an inch long, and that 
his face was as old and withered as any face she had ever seen.
  
She said to herself:  "Now I am undone, but I will keep quiet until I see 
what will come of this."
  
Next day she lifted the lad in her arms, put a shawl about him, and went 
away as though she was going to the next farm with him.  A bug burn ran 
across her path, and when she was going over the ford, the creature put 
his head out of the shawl and said:  "Many a big fold have I seen on the 
banks of this stream!"
 
The woman did not wait to hear more of his history, but threw him into a 
deep pool below the ford, where he lay for a while, tumbling about and 
reviling her, and saying if he had known beforehand the trick she was 
going to play him, he would have shown her another.
 
She then heard a sound like that of a flock of birds flying about her, 
but saw nothing until she looked at her feet, and there beheld her own 
child with his bones as bare as the tongs.  She took him home with her, 
and he got gradually better, and was at last as healthy as any other child.