Among the treasures of Dunvegan is a green fairy flag, which some 
materialists believe to be only a relic of the Crusades -- a consecrated 
banner of the Knights Templars, but which all true Highlanders affirm to 
have been a gift to some ancestral MacLeod, from a fairy maiden. She 
promised that on three distinct occasions when he or his clan were in 
danger, he might wave the flag with certainty of relief.   
MacLeod proved false to his fairy, and married a mere commonplace human 
maiden, whereupon his spirit wife waxed wroth, and ordained that every 
woman in the clan should give birth to a dead child, and that all the 
cattle should have dead calves. Then a loud and bitter wail rang through 
the green valleys, and along the shores, and MacLeod, in sore tribulation, 
bethought him of the flag. The fairy proved more true to her words than 
her lover had been to his, so she withdrew her spell, and the clan once 
more flourished.   
Then came a terrible battle, when MacLeod and his men were well-nigh 
routed, and again, though he must have been sorely ashamed of himself, he 
waved the flag, and the victory was his. Why the flag was not waved for 
the third time, when the isles were ruined by the failure of the kelp 
trade, or during the potato famine, MacLeod best knows. Perhaps he thought 
it well to save one "last tune in the old fiddle." At all events the green 
flag still lies in its old case, and is such a treasure as no other laird 
can show.