German Legends   
At Hessloch near Odernheim in the Gau the servant and the cook of a 
clergyman were living together as man and wife, although they had not 
been able to have their relationship publicly consecrated.  They had a 
child together, but it failed to grow and gain weight.  It cried day and 
night, always demanding to be fed.
 
Finally the woman sought advice, and was told that the baby would improve 
if she would take it to Neuhausen on the Cyriak Meadow, have it weighed 
there, and give it water from the Cyriak Spring.  At that time it was 
believed that in such cases a child thus would be restored to health or 
would die within nine days.  [Note 1]
 
As the woman approached the millrace near Westhofen, the child, whom she 
was carrying on her back, became so heavy that she began to pant, and the 
sweat began running from her face.  At that moment a traveling student 
approached her, saying: "Woman, what sort of wild creature are you 
carrying?  It will be a miracle if it doesn't break your neck!"
  
She answered that it was her own dear child that would neither grow nor 
gain weight, and that she was therefore taking it to Neuhausen to have it 
weighed.
  
He replied: "That is not your child!  It is the devil!  [Note 2]  Throw 
him into the brook!"
  
She did not want to do this, insisting that it was her child while 
kissing it.
  
He continued: "Your child is at home in a new cradle behind the chest in 
the side room.  Throw this monster into the brook!"
  
Crying and sobbing she did has she had been told.  Immediately there 
issued a great cry and commotion from beneath the bridge she was standing 
on, like the howling of wolves and bears.  And when the mother arrived 
home, she found her baby, hearty and healthy, laughing in its new cradle.