Once there was a pastor's wife who was afraid to have children. Other
women are concerned when they have no children, but she was constantly
afraid that she could have children. 
 One day she went to a wise woman, a wicked witch, and asked her what to
do to avoid having children. The wise woman gave her seven stones and told
her if she would throw them into the well she would be spared from having
children. 
 The pastor's wife threw the stones into the well. As each stone
splashed below, she thought that she heard the cry of a child, but still
she felt a great sense of relief. 
 Some time later the pastor and his wife were walking across the churchyard
by the light of a full moon, when the pastor suddenly noticed that his
wife did not have a shadow. This frightened him, and he asked her for an
explanation, stating that she must have committed a dreadful sin, a sin
that she would have to confess to him. 
 He continued to press her for a confession, until finally she admitted
what she had done. Upon hearing her story, he angrily proclaimed, "Cursed
woman! Flowers will grow from our slate roof before God forgives you of
this sinful deed!" With that he sent her away, telling her to never again
step across his threshold. 
 One night, many years later, a wretched and tattered beggar woman
approached the parsonage and asked for shelter. The housekeeper gave the
poor woman a bit to eat and made a bed for her next to the kitchen
stove. 
 The next morning the pastor found the beggar woman dead on the kitchen
floor. In spite of her rags, he recognized her immediately as the woman he
had cursed and disowned. As he stood there contemplating her lifeless, but
serene face, his housekeeper burst into the room. "Pastor!" she exclaimed.
"Come outside! A miracle has happened during the night!" The pastor
followed her outside and saw that his slate roof was covered with
blossoming flowers.