Somewhere near the mouth of the Fraser River lived a girl who had
refused all suitors.
 After a while a man came to visit her, and lay with her at night.
 The girl said to him, "You must stay until daylight, and show yourself
to my parents."
 He answered, "No, I am too poor. Your people would not like me."
 As he continued to come every night, the girl told her parents, and
they were very angry. Then Fish-Man caused the sea to recede for many
miles from the village. He let all the freshwater streams dry up, and no
rain fall. The animals became thirsty, and left the country. The people
could get no fish, no game, and no water to drink.
 The girl told the people, "My lover has done this, because you were
wroth with him and refused him."
 Then the people made a long walk of planks over the mud to the edge of
the sea. At the end of this they built a large platform of planks, which
they covered with mats. They heaped many woolen blankets on it. Then they
dressed the girl in a fine robe, combed and oiled her hair, painted her
face, and put down on her head. Then they placed her on the top of the
blankets and left her there. At once the sky became overcast, rain fell,
the springs burst out, the streams ran, and the sea came in. The people
watched until the sea rose, and floated the platform with the blankets.
They saw a man climb up beside the girl
 They stood up; and the girl called, "Now all is well. I shall visit you
soon."
 Night came on, and they saw them no more. In two days she came back,
and told the people, "I live below the sea, in the fish country. The
houses there are just the same as here, and the people live in the same
way."
 She returned again with her husband bringing presents of fish. She
said, "Henceforth people here shall always be able to catch plenty of
fish."
 Once more she came to show them her newly born child. After that she
returned to the sea, and was never seen again.