German Legends   
The rural people of Mark Brandenburg tell the legend of the Rye-Mother 
who hides in grain fields.  For this reason children do not dare to walk 
into a grain field.
  
In Altmark children a kept silent with the words: "Hold your mouth or the 
Rye-Mother, with her long black tits, will come and take you away!"
  
In the vicinity of Braunschweig and Lüneburg she is called the 
Grain-Wife.  Children seeking cornflowers tell one another stories about 
how she steals little children; and hence they do not dare go too far 
into the green fields.
  
In the year 1662 a woman from Saalfeld told Prätorius the following 
story:  A nobleman from there forced one of his subjects, a woman who had 
given birth less than six weeks earlier, to help bind sheaves during the 
harvest.  The woman, who was still nursing her baby, took it with her to 
the field.  In order better to perform her work, she laid the child on 
the ground.  Some time later, the nobleman, who was present there, saw an 
Earth-Woman with a child come and exchange it for the peasant woman's 
child.  The false child began to cry.  The peasant woman hurried to it in 
order to nurse it, but the nobleman held her back, saying that he would 
tell her the reason in good time.  The woman thought that he was doing 
this in order to make her work harder, which caused her great concern.  
Meanwhile, the child cried incessantly, until finally the Rye-Mother 
returned, picked up the crying child, and layed the stolen child back in 
its place.
  
After seeing all of this transpire, the nobleman summoned the peasant 
woman and told her to return home.  And from that time forth he resolved 
to never again force a woman who had recently given birth to work.