In a certain village there lived an old Brahman who had three sons and
a daughter. The girl being the youngest was brought up most tenderly and
become spoilt, and so whenever she saw a beautiful boy she would say to
her parents that she must be wedded to him. Her parents were, therefore,
much put about to devise excuses for taking her away from her youthful
lovers. Thus passed on some years, until the girl was very nearly grown
up, and then the parents, fearing that they would be driven out of their
caste if they failed to dispose of her hand in marriage before she came to
the years of maturity, began to be eager about finding a bridegroom for
her. 
 Now near their village there lived a fierce tiger, that had attained to
great proficiency in the art of magic, and had the power of assuming
different forms. Having a great taste for Brahman's food, the tiger used
now and then to frequent temples and other places of public refreshment in
the shape of an old famished Brahman in order to share the food prepared
for the Brahmans. The tiger also wanted, if possible, a Brahman wife to
take to the woods, and there to make her cook his meals after her fashion.
One day, when he was partaking of his meals in Brahman shape at a public
feeding place, he heard the talk about the Brahman girl who was always
falling in love with every beautiful Brahman boy. 
 Said he to himself, "Praised be the face that I saw first this morning.
I shall assume the shape of a Brahman boy, and appear as beautiful as can
be, and win the heart of the girl." 
 Next morning he accordingly assumed the form of a Brahman teacher
proficient in the Ramayana near the landing of the sacred river of the
village. Scattering holy ashes profusely over his body he opened the
Ramayana and began to read. 
 "The voice of the new teacher is most enchanting. Let us go and hear
him," said some women among themselves, and sat down before him to hear
him expound the great book. The girl for whom the tiger had assumed this
shape came in due time to bathe at the river, and as soon as she saw the
new teacher fell in love with him, and bothered her old mother to speak to
her father about him, so as not to lose her new lover. The old woman too
was delighted at the bridegroom whom fortune had thrown in her way, and
ran home to her husband, who, when he came and saw the teacher, raised up
his hands in praise of the great god Mahesvara. The teacher was now
invited to take his meals with them, and as he had come with the express
intention of marrying the daughter, he, of course, agreed. 
 A grand dinner followed in honor of the teacher, and his host began to
question him as to his parentage, etc., to which the cunning tiger replied
that he was born in a village beyond the adjacent wood. The Brahman had no
time to wait for further inquiries, and as the boy was very fair he
married his daughter to him the very next day. Feasts followed for a
month, during which time the bridegroom gave every satisfaction to his new
relatives, who supposed him to be human all the while. He also did full
justice to the Brahman dishes, and swallowed everything that was placed
before him. 
 After the first month was over the tiger bridegroom yearned for his
accustomed prey, and hankered after his abode in the woods. A change of
diet for a day or two is all very well, but to renounce his own proper
food for more than a month was hard. So one day he said to his
father-in-law, "I must go back soon to my old parents, for they will be
pining at my absence. But why should we have to bear the double expense of
my coming all the way here again to take my wife to my village? So if you
will kindly let me take the girl with me I shall take her to her future
home, and hand her over to her mother-in-law, and see that she is well
taken care of." 
 The old Brahman agreed to this, and replied, "My dear son-in-law, you
are her husband, and she is yours, and we now send her with you, though it
is like sending her into the wilderness with her eyes tied up. But as we
take you to be everything to her, we trust you to treat her kindly." 
 The mother of the bride shed tears at the idea of having to send her
away, but nevertheless the very next day was fixed for the journey. The
old woman spent the whole day in preparing cakes and sweetmeats for her
daughter, and when the time for the journey arrived, she took care to
place in her bundles and on her head one or two margosa leaves to keep off
demons. The relatives of the bride requested her husband to allow her to
rest wherever she found shade, and to eat wherever she found water, and to
this he agreed, and so they began their journey. 
 The boy tiger and his human wife pursued their journey for an hour or
so in free and pleasant conversation, when the girl happened to see a fine
pond, around which the birds were warbling their sweet notes. She
requested her husband to follow her to the water's edge and to partake of
some of the cakes and sweetmeats with her. 
 But he replied, "Be quiet, or I shall show you my original shape." 
 This made her afraid, so she pursued her journey in silence until she
saw another pond, when she asked the same question of her husband, who
replied in the same tone. 
 Now she was very hungry, and not liking her husband's tone, which she
found had greatly changed ever since they had entered the woods, said to
him, "Show me your original shape." 
 No sooner were these words uttered than her husband's form changed from
that of a man. Four legs, striped skin, a long tail, and a tiger's face
came over him suddenly and, horror of horrors! a tiger and not a man stood
before her! Nor were her fears stilled when the tiger in human voice began
as follows: "Know henceforth that I, your husband, am a tiger -- this very
tiger that now speaks to you. If you have any regard for your life you
must obey all my orders implicitly, for I can speak to you in human voice,
and understand what you say. In an hour or so we shall reach my home, of
which you will become the mistress. In the front of my house you will see
half a dozen tubs, each of which you must fill up daily with some dish or
other, cooked in your own way. I shall take care to supply you with all
the provisions you want." So saying the tiger slowly conducted her to his
house. 
 The misery of the girl may more be imagined than described, for if she
were to object she would be put to death. So, weeping all the way, she
reached her husband's house. Leaving her there he went out and returned
with several pumpkins and some flesh, of which she soon prepared a curry
and gave it to her husband. He went out again after this and returned in
the evening with several vegetables and some more flesh, and gave her an
order, "Every morning I shall go out in search of provisions and prey, and
bring something with me on my return; you must keep cooked for me whatever
I leave in the house." 
 So next morning as soon as the tiger had gone away she cooked
everything left in the house and filled all the tubs with food. At the
fourth hour the tiger returned and growled out, "I smell a man! I smell a
woman in my wood." And his wife for very fear shut herself up in the
house. 
 As soon as the tiger had satisfied his appetite he told her to open the
door, which she did, and they talked together for a time, after which the
tiger rested awhile, and then went out hunting again. Thus passed many a
day, until the tiger's Brahman wife had a son, which also turned out to be
only a tiger. 
 One day, after the tiger had gone out to the woods, his wife was crying
all alone in the house, when a crow happened to peck at some rice that was
scattered near her, and seeing the girl crying, began to shed tears. 
 "Can you assist me?" asked the girl. 
 "Yes," said the crow. 
 So she brought out a palmyra leaf and wrote on it with an iron nail all
her sufferings in the wood, and requested her brothers to come and relieve
her. This palmyra leaf she tied to the neck of the crow, which, seeming to
understand her thoughts, flew to her village and sat down before one of
her brothers. He untied the leaf and read the contents of the letter and
told them to his other brothers. All the three then started for the wood,
asking their mother to give them something to eat on the way. She had not
enough rice for the three, so she made a big ball of clay and stuck it
over with what rice she had, so as to make it look like a ball of rice.
This she gave to the brothers to eat on their way, and started them off to
the woods. 
 They had not proceeded long before they caught sight of a donkey. The
youngest, who was of a playful disposition, wished to take the donkey with
him. The two elder brothers objected to this for a time, but in the end
they allowed him to have his own way. Further on they saw an ant, which
the middle brother took with him. Near the ant there was a big palmyra
tree lying on the ground, which the eldest took with him to keep off the
tiger. 
 The sun was now high in the horizon and the three brothers became very
hungry. So they sat down near a tank and opened the bundle containing the
ball of rice. To their utter disappointment they found it to be all clay,
but being extremely hungry they drank all the water in the pond and
continued their journey. On leaving the tank they found a big iron tub
belonging to the washerman of the adjacent village. This they took also
with them in addition to the donkey, the ant, and the palmyra tree.
Following the road described by their sister in her letter sent by the
crow, they walked on and on until they reached the tiger's house. 
 The sister, overjoyed to see her brothers again, ran out at once to
welcome them, "My dearest brothers, I am so glad to see that you have come
here to relieve me after all, but the time for the tiger's coming home is
approaching, so hide yourselves in the loft, and wait until he is gone."
So saying, she helped her brothers to ascend into the loft. 
 By this time the tiger returned, and perceived the presence of human
beings by the peculiar smell. He asked his wife whether anyone had come to
their house. She said, "No." But when the brothers, who with their
trophies of the way -- the donkey, the ant, and so on -- were sitting upon
the loft, saw the tiger dallying with their sister, they were greatly
frightened; so much so that the youngest, through fear, began to quake,
and they all fell on the floor. 
 "What is all this?" said the terrified tiger to his wife. 
 "Nothing," said she, "but your brothers-in-law. They came here three
hours ago, and as soon as you have finished your meals they want to see
you." 
 "How can my brothers-in-law be such cowards?" thought the tiger to
himself. He then asked them to speak to him, whereon the youngest brother
put the ant which he had in his hand into the ear of the donkey, and as
soon as the latter was bitten, it began to bawl out most horribly. 
 "How is it that your brothers have such a hoarse voice?" said the tiger
to his wife. 
 He next asked them to show him their legs. Taking courage at the
stupidity of the tiger on the two former occasions, the eldest brother now
stretched out the palmyra tree. 
 "By my father, I have never seen such a leg," said the tiger, and asked
his brothers-in-law to show their bellies. The second brother now showed
the tub, at which the tiger shuddered, and saying, "such a harsh voice, so
stout a leg, and such a belly, truly I have never heard of such persons as
these!" He ran away. 
 It was already dark, and the brothers, wishing to take advantage of the
tiger's terror, prepared to return home with their sister at once. They
ate up what little food she had, and ordered her to start. Fortunately for
her, her tiger child was asleep. So she tore it into two pieces and
suspended them over the hearth, and, thus getting rid of the child, she
ran off with her brothers towards home. 
 Before leaving she bolted the front door from inside, and went out at
the back of the house. As soon as the pieces of the cub, which were hung
up over the hearth, began to roast, they dripped, which made the fire hiss
and sputter; and when the tiger returned at about midnight, he found the
door shut and heard the hissing of the fire, which he mistook for the
noise of cooking muffins. 
 "I see," said he to himself, "how very cunning you are; you have bolted
the door and are cooking muffins for your brothers. Let us see if we can't
get your muffins." 
 So saying, he went around to the back door and entered his house, and
was greatly perplexed to find his cub torn in two and being roasted, his
house deserted by his Brahman wife, and his property plundered; for his
wife, before leaving, had taken with her as much of the tiger's property
as she could conveniently carry. 
 The tiger now discovered all the treachery of his wife, and his heart
grieved for the loss of his son, that was now no more. He determined to be
revenged on his wife, and to bring her back into the wood, and there tear
her into many pieces in place of only two. But how to bring her back? He
assumed his original shape of a young bridegroom, making, of course, due
allowance for the number of years that had passed since his marriage, and
next morning went to his father-in-law's house. His brothers-in-law and
his wife saw from a distance the deceitful form he had assumed, and
devised means to kill him. The younger ones too ran here and there to
bring provisions to feed him sumptuously, and the tiger was highly pleased
at the hospitable way in which he was received. 
 There was a ruined well at the back of the house, and the eldest of the
brothers placed some thin sticks across its mouth, over which he spread a
fine mat. Now it is usual to ask guests to have an oil bath before dinner,
and so his three brothers-in-law requested the tiger to take his seat on
the fine mat for his bath. As soon as he sat on it, the thin sticks being
unable to bear his weight, gave way, and down fell the cunning tiger with
a heavy crash! The well was at once filled in with stones and other
rubbish, and thus the tiger was effectually prevented from doing any more
mischief. 
 But the Brahman girl, in memory of her having married a tiger, raised a
pillar over the well and planted a  tulasi  shrub on the top of it.
Morning and evening, for the rest of her life, she used to smear the
pillar with sacred cow dung, and water the  tulasi  shrub. 
 This story is told to explain the Tamil proverb, "Be quiet, or I shall
show you my original shape."