When in the ninth century the monks of Corvei were attempting to convert 
the heathens of Rügen to the Christian faith, one of the missionaries 
traveled to Hiddensee. Late one evening he stopped at the door of a hut in 
a fishing village and asked to be allowed inside. The woman of the house 
rejected him as a beggar, sending him away with harsh words. He then 
turned to her poor neighbor, where he at once received shelter and 
nourishment.   
The next morning he thanked the poor widow, then departed from her with 
these words, "I have neither gold nor silver to pay for the lodging, but 
the first thing you do today shall be blessed!"   
Thinking nothing of these words, she began to measure a little piece of 
linen that she had woven. But it had no end. She measured and measured 
throughout the whole day, until the sun went down, and thus filled her 
entire house with linen. Remembering the words of the apostle, she 
revealed the source of her good fortune to her envious neighbor.   
The latter remembered the words exactly, and when, some time later, the 
missionary once again knocked on her door, she received him with the 
greatest eagerness.   
The next morning, after the guest had departed saying the familiar words, 
she decided to immediately count the money she had saved in a jar. 
However, first of all she had to go outside to answer an unexpected call 
of nature. Suddenly the holy man's blessing took effect, and with such 
force that the land was flooded and became separated from Rügen.