Once on a time, when a midwife from Nanhwynan had newly got to the
Hafoddydd Brithion to pursue her calling, a gentleman came to the door on
a fine gray steed and bade her come with him at once.  Such was the
authority with which he spoke, that the poor midwife durst not refuse to
go, however much it was her duty to stay where she was.  So she mounted
behind him, and off the went, like the flight of a swallow, through
Cwmllan, over the Bwlch, down Nant yr Aran, and over the Gader to Cwm
Hafod Ruffydd, before the poor woman had time even to say "Oh!"
 When they reached there, she saw before her a magnificent mansion,
splendidly lit up with such lamps as she had never seen before.  They
entered the court, and a crowd of servants in expensive liveries came to
meet them, and she was at once led through the great hall into a
bed-chamber, the like of which she had never seen.  There the mistress of
the house, to whom she had been fetched, was awaiting her.
 The midwife got through her duties successfully, and stayed there until
the lady had completely recovered, nor had she spent any part of her life
so merrily, for there naught but festivity went on day and night:
dancing, singing, and endless rejoicing reigned there.  But merry as it
was, she found that she must go, and the nobleman gave her a large purse,
with the order not to open it until she had got into her own house.  Then
he bade one of his servants escort her the same way that she had come.
When she reached home she opened the purse, and, to her great joy, it was
full of money.
 She lived happily on those earnings to the end of her life.