Children must often have wondered why jellyfishes have no shells, like
so many of the creatures that are washed up every day on the beach. In old
times this was not so; the jellyfish had as hard a shell as any of them,
but he lost it through his own fault, as may be seen in this story. 
 The sea-queen Otohime grew suddenly very ill. The swiftest messengers
were sent hurrying to fetch the best doctors from every country under the
sea, but it was all of no use; the queen grew rapidly worse instead of
better. Everyone had almost given up hope, when one day a doctor arrived
who was cleverer than the rest, and said that the only thing that would
cure her was the liver of an ape. 
 Now apes do not dwell under the sea, so a council of the wisest heads
in the nation was called to consider the question how a liver could be
obtained. At length it was decided that the turtle, whose prudence was
well known, should swim to land and contrive to catch a living ape and
bring him safely to the ocean kingdom. 
 It was easy enough for the council to entrust this mission to the
turtle, but not at all so easy for him to fulfil it. However, he swam to a
part of the coast that was covered with tall trees, where he thought the
apes were likely to be; for he was old, and had seen many things. It was
some time before he caught sight of any monkeys, and he often grew tired
with watching for them, so that one hot day he fell fast asleep, in spite
of all his efforts to keep awake. 
 By and by some apes, who had been peeping at him from the tops of the
trees, where they had been carefully hidden from the turtle's eyes, stole
noiselessly down, and stood round staring at him, for they had never seen
a turtle before, and did not know what to make of it. At last one young
monkey, bolder than the rest, stooped down and stroked the shining shell
that the strange new creature wore on its back. The movement, gentle
though it was, woke the turtle. With one sweep he seized the monkey's hand
in his mouth, and held it tight, in spite of every effort to pull it away.
The other apes, seeing that the turtle was not to be trifled with, ran
off, leaving their young brother to his fate. 
 Then the turtle said to the monkey, "If you will be quiet, and do what
I tell you, I won't hurt you. But you must get on my back and come with
me." 
 The monkey, seeing there was no help for it, did as he was bid; indeed
he could not have resisted, as his hand was still in the turtle's
mouth. 
 Delighted at having secured his prize, the turtle hastened back to the
shore and plunged quickly into the water. He swam faster than he had ever
done before, and soon reached the royal palace. Shouts of joy broke forth
from the attendants when he was seen approaching, and some of them ran to
tell the queen that the monkey was there, and that before long she would
be as well as ever she was. In fact, so great was their relief that they
gave the monkey such a kind welcome, and were so anxious to make him happy
and comfortable, that he soon forgot all the fears that had beset him as
to his fate, and was generally quite at his ease, though every now and
then a fit of homesickness would come over him, and he would hide himself
in some dark corner till it had passed away. 
 It was during one of these attacks of sadness that a jellyfish happened
to swim by. At that time jellyfishes had shells. At the sight of the gay
and lively monkey crouching under a tall rock, with his eyes closed and
his head bent, the jellyfish was filled with pity, and stopped, saying,
"Ah, poor fellow, no wonder you weep; a few days more, and they will come
and kill you and give your liver to the queen to eat." 
 The monkey shrank back horrified at these words and asked the jellyfish
what crime he had committed that deserved death. 
 "Oh, none at all," replied the jellyfish, "but your liver is the only
thing that will cure our queen, and how can we get at it without killing
you? You had better submit to your fate, and make no noise about it, for
though I pity you from my heart there is no way of helping you." Then he
went away, leaving the ape cold with horror. 
 At first he felt as if his liver was already being taken from his body,
but soon he began to wonder if there was no means of escaping this
terrible death, and at length he invented a plan which he thought would
do. For a few days he pretended to be gay and happy as before, but when
the sun went in, and rain fell in torrents, he wept and howled from dawn
to dark, till the turtle, who was his head keeper, heard him, and came to
see what was the matter. Then the monkey told him that before he left home
he had hung his liver out on a bush to dry, and if it was always going to
rain like this it would become quite useless. And the rogue made such a
fuss and moaning that he would have melted a heart of stone, and nothing
would content him but that somebody should carry him back to land and let
him fetch his liver again. 
 The queen's councilors were not the wisest of people, and they decided
between them that the turtle should take the monkey back to his native
land and allow him to get his liver off the bush, but desired the turtle
not to lose sight of his charge for a single moment. The monkey knew this,
but trusted to his power of beguiling the turtle when the time came, and
mounted on his back with feelings of joy, which he was, however, careful
to conceal. 
 They set out, and in a few hours were wandering about the forest where
the ape had first been caught, and when the monkey saw his family peering
out from the tree tops, he swung himself up by the nearest branch, just
managing to save his hind leg from being seized by the turtle. He told
them all the dreadful things that had happened to him, and gave a war cry
which brought the rest of the tribe from the neighboring hills. At a word
from him they rushed in a body to the unfortunate turtle, threw him on his
back, and tore off the shield that covered his body. Then with mocking
words they hunted him to the shore, and into the sea, which he was only
too thankful to reach alive. 
 Faint and exhausted he entered the queen's palace, for the cold of the
water struck upon his naked body, and made him feel ill and miserable. But
wretched though he was, he had to appear before the queen's advisers and
tell them all that had befallen him, and how he had suffered the monkey to
escape. But, as sometimes happens, the turtle was allowed to go scot-free,
and had his shell given back to him, and all the punishment fell on the
poor jellyfish, who was condemned by the queen to go shieldless for ever
after.