Llyn Gwernen is by the side of the old road leading from Dolgellau to 
Llanegryn, at the foot of Cader Idris. A number of the farmers of 
Llanegryn were once hurrying home from a fair at Dolgellau (they were 
hungry, because the men who sold food at Dolgellau fairs in the olden time 
used to serve it up so hot that no one could touch it. The farmers were so 
busy that they could not wait for the dishes to cool, and so it was very 
little they had for their money). They saw a great man, with green water 
weeds entwined in his hair, and naked save for a girdle of green weeds, 
walking round the lake and crying in a querulous tone, "The hour is come 
but the man is not, the hour is come but the man is not," over and over 
again.   
The farmers were frightened and ran home. Others also who returned home 
later than they saw and heard him, and it was afterwards found out that 
the great man with the green water weeds kept on complaining, "The hour is 
come but the man is not," from ten o'clock at night until five o'clock in 
the morning.   
Some days after the body of an Englishman was found floating, swollen and 
horrible, on the surface of the lake. He had caused a great stir in the 
regions round about Cader Idris by sitting all night in the chair in which 
the astronomer Idris used in early days to watch the stars. (Idris was of 
more than ordinary stature. One day in walking he felt something in his 
shoe hurting him; he pulled it off and shook out three stones, which are 
still to be seen by the Lake of the Three Pebbles, Llyn y Tri Graienyn. 
One of them is twenty-four feet long, eighteen feet broad, and twelve feet 
high.) His object was to test the truth of the saying that anyone who 
spent a night in the chair would by morning be either mad, or a poet, or a 
corpse. So far from being a poet by the next day, he was not even a bard, 
and he certainly was not dead then. It was therefore concluded that his 
intellect was deranged thereby, and he had in this state fallen into the 
clutches of the man with the green weeds, who had dragged him into the 
depths of the lake. The objection to that idea was that he must have been 
mad beforehand, because his chief delight was to climb to the summits of 
mountains. The folk who dwell at the feet of such mountains as Cader Idris 
and Snowdon make it a boast that they are much too sensible to attempt 
anything so silly.