Once upon a time, when the world was flat and there were no mountains, 
there lived two brothers, sons of Lumawig, the Great Spirit. The brothers 
were fond of hunting, and since no mountains had formed there was no good 
place to catch wild pig and deer, and the older brother said, "Let us 
cause water to flow over all the world and cover it, and then mountains 
will rise up."   
So they caused water to flow over all the earth, and when it was covered 
they took the head-basket [a bamboo basket, in which the heads of victims 
are kept prior to the head-taking celebration] of the town and set it for 
a trap. The brothers were very much pleased when they went to look at 
their trap, for they had caught not only many wild pigs and deer, but also 
many people.   
Now Lumawig looked down from his place in the sky and saw that his sons 
had flooded the earth and that in all the world there was just one spot 
which was not covered. And he saw that all the people in the world had 
been drowned except one brother and sister who lived in Pokis.   
Then Lumawig descended, and he called to the boy and girl, saying, "Oh, 
you are still alive."   
"Yes," answered the boy, "we are still alive, but we are very cold."   
So Lumawig commanded his dog and deer to get fire for the boy and girl. 
The dog and the deer swam quickly away, but though Lumawig waited a long 
time they did not return, and all the time the boy and girl were growing 
colder.   
Finally Lumawig himself went after the dog and the deer, and when he 
reached them he said, "Why are you so long in bringing the fire to Pokis? 
Get ready and come quickly while I watch you, for the boy and girl are 
very cold."   
Then the dog and the deer took the fire and started to swim through the 
flood, but when they had gone only a little way, the fire was put out.   
Lumawig commanded them to get more fire and they did so, but they swam 
only a little way again when that of the deer went out, and that of the 
dog would have been extinguished also had not Lumawig gone quickly to him 
and taken it.   
As soon as Lumawig reached Pokis he built a big fire which warmed the 
brother and sister; and the water evaporated so that the world was as it 
was before, except that now there were mountains. The brother and sister 
married and had children, and thus there came to be many people on the 
earth.