In long past times a hunter wounded an elephant with a poisoned arrow.
Perceiving that he had hit it, he followed after the arrow and killed the
elephant. Five hundred robbers who had plundered a hill-town were led by
an evil star to that spot, where they perceived the elephant. As it was
just then a time of hunger with them, they said, "Now that we have found
this meat, let two hundred and fifty of us cut the flesh off the elephant
and roast it, while two hundred and fifty go to fetch water." 
 Then those among them who had cut the flesh off the elephant and cooked
it, said among themselves, "Honored sirs, now that we have accomplished
such a task and collected so much stolen property, wherefore should we
give away part of it to the others?" Let us eat as much of the meat as we
please, and then poison the rest. The others will eat the poisoned meat
and die, and then the stolen goods will be ours." 
 So after they had eaten their fill of the meat, they poisoned what
remained over. Those who had gone to fetch water, likewise, when they had
drunk as much water as they wanted, poisoned what was left. So when they
came back, and those who had eaten the flesh drank the water, and those
who had drunk the water ate the flesh, they all of them died. 
 Now there came to that spot a jackal, fettered by the ties of time, and
it saw all those dead bodies. With a joy that sprang from greediness it
thought, "As an extremely large amount of booty as accrued to me, I will
take each part of it in its turn." So it seized the bow with its jaws, and
began to gnaw at the knots of the bowstring. The string snapped, and the
end of the bow struck the jackal in the roof of the mouth so hard, that it
died. The jackal uttered this proverb: "It is good to accumulate, but not
to accumulate immoderately. See how the jackal, infatuated by greed after
the accumulated, was killed by the bow."