Popular Romances of the West of England 
This story is told by Mr. T. Q. Couch, as an example of the folk-lore of a 
Cornish village, in "Notes and Queries," under the name of "Coleman Gray":
  
There is a farmhouse of some antiquity with which my family have a close 
connection; and it is this circumstance, more than any other, that has 
rendered this tradition concerning it more interesting to us, and better 
remembered than many other equally romantic and authentic.  
 
Close to this house, one day, a little miserable-looking bantling was 
discovered alone, unknown, and incapable of making its wants understood.  
It was instantly remembered by the finder, that this was the way in which 
the piskies were accustomed to deal with those infants of their race for 
whom they sought human protection; and it would have been an awful 
circumstance if such a one were not received by the individual so 
visited.  The anger of the piskies would be certain, and some direful 
calamity must be the result; whereas, a kind welcome would probably be 
attended with great good fortune.  
 
The miserable plight of this stranger, therefore, attracted attention and 
sympathy.  The little unconscious one was admitted as one of the family.  
Its health was speedily restored, and its renewed strength, activity, 
intelligence, and good-humour, caused it to become a general favourite.  
 
It is true the stranger was often found to indulge in odd freaks; but 
this was accounted for by a recollection of its pedigree, which was not 
doubted to be of the piskie order.  So the family prospered, and had 
banished the thought that the foundling would ever leave them.  
 
There was to the front door of this house, a hatch, which is a half-door, 
that is kept closed when the whole door behind it is open, and it then 
serves as a guard against the intrusion of dogs, hogs, and ducks, while 
air and light are freely admitted.  This little being was one day leaning 
over the top of this hatch, and looking wistfully outward, when a clear 
voice was heard to proceed from a neighbouring part of the townplace, 
calling "Coleman Gray, Coleman Gray!"  
 
The piskie immediately started up, and with a sudden laugh clapped its 
hands, exclaiming, "Aha! my daddy is come!"  It was gone in a moment, 
never to be seen again.