Narrative 1 
 One evening, between the years 1790 and 1800, a traveler, dressed in
woman's clothes, arrived at the Old Spital Inn, the place where the mail
coach changed horses, in High Spital, on Bowes Moor. The traveler begged
to stay all night, but had to go away so early in the morning that if a
mouthful of food were set ready for breakfast there was no need the family
should be disturbed by her departure. The people of the house, however,
arranged that a servant maid should sit up till the stranger was out of
the premises, and then went to bed themselves. 
 The girl lay down for a nap on the longsettle by the fire, but before
she shut her eyes she took a good look at the traveler, who was sitting on
the opposite side of the hearth, and espied a pair of man's trousers
peeping out from under the gown. 
 All inclination for sleep was now gone; however, with great
self-command, she feigned it, closed her eyes, and even began to snore. On
this the traveler got up, pulled out of his pocket a dead man's hand,
fitted a candle to it, lighted the candle, and passed hand and candle
several times before the servant girl's face, saying as he did so: "Let
all those who are asleep be asleep, and let those who are awake be awake."
This done, he placed the light on the table, opened the outer door, went
down two or three of the steps which led from the house to the road, and
began to whistle for his companions. 
 The girl (who had hitherto had presence of mind enough to remain
perfectly quiet) now jumped up, rushed behind the ruffian, and pushed him
down the steps. She then shut the door, locked it, and ran upstairs to try
and wake the family, but without success: calling, shouting, and shaking
were alike in vain. The poor girl was in despair, for she heard the
traveler and his comrades outside the house. So she ran down again, and
seized a bowl of blue (i.e., skimmed milk), and threw it over the hand and
candle; after which she went upstairs again, and awoke the sleepers
without any difficulty. 
 The landlord's son went to the window, and asked the men outside what
they wanted. They answered that if the dead man's hand were but given
them, they would go away quietly, and do no harm to anyone. This he
refused, and fired among them, and the shot must have taken effect, for in
the morning stains of blood were traced to a considerable distance. 
 These circumstances were related to my informant, Mr. Charles Wastell,
in the spring of 1861, by an old woman named Bella Parkin, who resided
close to High Spital, and was actually the daughter of the courageous
servant girl. 
 Narrative 2 
 Two magicians, having come to lodge in a public house with a view to
robbing it, asked permission to pass the night by the fire, and obtained
it. When the house was quiet, the servant girl, suspecting mischief, crept
downstairs and looked through the keyhole. She saw the men open a sack,
and take out a dry, withered hand. They anointed the fingers with some
unguent, and lighted them. Each finger flamed, but the thumb they could
not light; that was because one of the household was not asleep.  
 The girl hastened to her master, but found it impossible to arouse him.
She tried every other sleeper, but could not break the charmed sleep. At
last, stealing down into the kitchen, while the thieves were busy over her
master's strongbox, she secured the hand, blew out the flames, and at once
the whole household was aroused. 
 Â  
 Narrative 3 
 One dark night, when all was shut up, there came a tap at the door of a
lone inn in the middle of a barren moor. The door was opened, and there
stood without, shivering and shaking, a poor beggar, his rags soaked with
rain, and his hand white with cold. He asked piteously for a lodging, and
it was cheerfully granted him; there was not a spare bed in the house, but
he could lie on the mat before the kitchen fire, and welcome. 
 So this was settled, and everyone in the house went to bed except the
cook, who from the back kitchen could see into the large room through a
pane of glass let into the door. She watched the beggar, and saw him, as
soon as he was left alone, draw himself up from the floor, seat himself at
the table, extract from his pocket a brown withered human hand, and set it
upright in the candlestick. He then anointed the fingers, and applying a
match to them, they began to flame. Filled with horror, the cook rushed up
the back stairs, and endeavored to arouse her master and the men of the
house. But all was in vain--they slept a charmed sleep; so in despair she
hastened down again, and placed herself at her post of observation. 
 She saw the fingers of the hand flaming, but the thumb remained
unlighted, because one inmate of the house was awake. The beggar was busy
collecting the valuables around him into a large sack, and having taken
all he cared for in the large room, he entered another. 
 On this the woman ran in, and, seizing the light, tried to extinguish
the flames. But this was not so easy. She blew at them, but they burnt on
as before. She poured the dregs of a beer jug over them, but they blazed
up the brighter. As a last resource, she caught up a jug of milk, and
dashed it over the four lambent flames, and they died out at once.
Uttering a loud cry, she rushed to the door of the apartment the beggar
had entered, and locked it. The whole family was aroused, and the thief
easily secured and hanged. 
 This tale is told in Northumberland.