Many years ago a wicked man lived in a pasture hut. Like other herdsmen,
he spent the summer there with his cattle. He was quick tempered and
arrogant. He had a poor servant boy, whom he tormented in every possible
way with hard work, rough words, and cruel blows. One day he gave the boy
a task to do which beyond the his strength. He was then overcome by such
anger that he grabbed the boy and thrust his head into a a kettle of milk
that was being boiled in order to separate it. Thus the boy died, and the
herdsman threw his body into a mountain creek. Back at home he said, "The
stupid boy must have been carried away by a rockslide. He went off to milk
the goats, but never came back."
 Many years passed, and the boys' bones hung unavenged on a cliffy bank
of the mountain creek. From time to time a particularly strong rush of
water would pick up one of the little bones, play with it for a while, and
then leave it lying on a remote bank.
 Once it happened that there was a fair in the valley. Everyone was
making merry. The wicked herdsman, drugged by the wine, music, and dance,
had lost all humility and good sense, and was reveling in his sinfulness.
It was too hot for him inside, so he went out to the creek, which, swollen
by a heavy, warm rain, was rushing by much stronger than usual. He kneeled
down and took off his hat to scoop up some water. He drank the water that
had run into his hat, but at the bottom he found a small white bone. He
stuck it onto his hat and returned to the hall.
 Suddenly the little bone began to bleed; and now everyone knew what had
happened to the boy. The festivities were quickly brought to a close, and
the evildoer was taken forthwith to the place of execution.