When the world first began there was no land, but only the sea and the 
sky, and between them was a kite (a bird something like a hawk). One day 
the bird which had nowhere to light grew tired of flying about, so she 
stirred up the sea until it threw its waters against the sky. The sky, in 
order to restrain the sea, showered upon it many islands until it could no 
longer rise, but ran back and forth. Then the sky ordered the kite to 
light on one of the islands to build her nest, and to leave the sea and 
the sky in peace.   
Now at this time the land breeze and the sea breeze were married, and they 
had a child which was a bamboo. One day when this bamboo was floating 
about on the water, it struck the feet of the kite which was on the beach. 
The bird, angry that anything should strike it, pecked at the bamboo, and 
out of one section came a man and from the other a woman.   
Then the earthquake called on all the birds and fish to see what should be 
done with these two, and it was decided that they should marry. Many 
children were born to the couple, and from them came all the different 
races of people.   
After a while the parents grew very tired of having so many idle and 
useless children around, and they wished to be rid of them, but they knew 
of no place to send them to. Time went on and the children became so 
numerous that the parents enjoyed no peace. One day, in desperation, the 
father seized a stick and began beating them on all sides.   
This so frightened the children that they fled in different directions, 
seeking hidden rooms in the house -- some concealed themselves in the 
walls, some ran outside, while others hid in the fireplace, and several 
fled to the sea.   
Now it happened that those who went into the hidden rooms of the house 
later became the chiefs of the islands; and those who concealed themselves 
in the walls became slaves. Those who ran outside were free men; and those 
who hid in the fireplace became negroes; while those who fled to the sea 
were gone many years, and when their children came back they were the 
white people.