Some years back, the blacksmith of Yarrowfoot had for apprentices two
brothers, both steady lads, and, when bound to him, fine healthy fellows.
 After a few months, however, the younger of the two began to grow pale
and lean, lose his appetite, and show other marks of declining health. His
brother, much concerned, often questioned him as to what ailed him, but to
no purpose.
 At last, however, the poor lad burst into an agony of tears, and
confessed that he was quite worn out, and should soon be brought to the
grave through the ill-usage of his mistress, who was in truth a witch,
though none suspected it. "Every night," he sobbed out, "she comes to my
bedside, puts a magic bridle on me, and changes me into a horse. Then,
seated on my back, she urges me on for many a mile to the wild moors,
where she and I know not what other vile creatures hold their hideous
feasts. There she keeps me all night, and at early morning I carry her
home. She takes off my bridle, and there I am, but so weary I can ill
stand. And thus I pass my nights while you are soundly sleeping."
 The elder brother at once declared he would take his chance of a night
among the witches, so he put the younger one in his own place next to the
wall, and lay awake himself till the usual time of the witch-woman's
arrival. She came, bridle in hand, and flinging it over the elder
brother's head, up sprang a fine hunting horse. The lady leaped on his
back, and started for the trysting-place, which on this occasion, as it
chanced, was the cellar of a neighboring laird.
 While she and the rest of the vile crew were regaling themselves with
claret and sack, the hunter, who was left in a spare stall of the stable,
rubbed and rubbed his head against the wall till he loosened the bridle,
and finally got it off, on which he recovered his human form. Holding the
bridle firmly in his hand, he concealed himself at the back of the stall
till his mistress came within reach, when in an instant he flung the magic
bridle over her head, and, behold, a fine gray mare!
 He mounted her and dashed off, riding through hedge and ditch, till,
looking down, he perceived she had lost a shoe from one of her forefeet.
He took her to the first smithy that was open, had the shoe replaced, and
a new one put on the other forefoot, and then rode her up and down a
plowed field till she was nearly worn out. At last he took her home, and
pulled the bridle off just in time for her to creep into bed before her
husband awoke, and got up for his day's work.
 The honest blacksmith arose, little thinking what had been going on all
night; but his wife complained of being very ill, almost dying, and begged
him to send for a doctor. He accordingly aroused his apprentices; the
elder one went out, and soon returned with one whom he had chanced to meet
already abroad.
 The doctor wished to feel his patient's pulse, but she resolutely hid
her hands, and refused to show them. The village Esculapius was perplexed;
but the husband, impatient at her obstinacy, pulled off the bedclothes,
and found, to his horror, that horseshoes were tightly nailed to both
hands! On further examination, her sides appeared galled with kicks, the
same that the apprentice had given her during his ride up and down the
plowed field.
 The brothers now came forward, and related all that had passed. On the
following day the witch was tried by the magistrates of Selkirk, and
condemned to be burned to death on a stone at the Bullsheugh, a sentence
which was promptly carried into effect. It is added that the younger
apprentice was at last restored to health by eating butter made from the
milk of cows fed in kirkyards, a sovereign remedy for consumption brought
on through being witch-ridden.