Constant tradition says that there lived in former times in Soffham
(Swaffham), alias Sopham, in Norfolk, a certain peddler, who dreamed that
if he went to London Bridge, and stood there, he should hear very joyful
news, which he at first slighted, but afterwards, his dream being doubled
and trebled upon him, he resolved to try the issue of it, and accordingly
went to London, and stood on the bridge there two or three days, looking
about him, but heard nothing that might yield him any comfort.  
 At last it happened that a shopkeeper there, hard by, having noted his
fruitless standing, seeing that he neither sold any wares nor asked any
alms, went to him and most earnestly begged to know what he wanted there,
or what his business was; to which the peddler honestly answered that he
had dreamed that if he came to London and stood there upon the bridge he
should hear good news; at which the shopkeeper laughed heartily, asking
him if he was such a fool as to take a journey on such a silly errand,
adding, "I'll tell you, country fellow, last night I dreamed that I was at
Sopham, in Norfolk, a place utterly unknown to me where I thought that
behind a peddler's house in a certain orchard, and under a great oak tree,
if I dug I should find a vast treasure! Now think you," says he, "that I
am such a fool to take such a long journey upon me upon the instigation of
a silly dream? No, no. I'm wiser. Therefore, good fellow, learn wit from
me, and get you home, and mind your business."  
 The peddler observing his words, what he had said he dreamed, and
knowing they concerned him, glad of such joyful news, went speedily home,
and dug and found a prodigious great treasure, with which he grew
exceeding rich; and Soffham (Church) being for the most part fallen down,
he set on workmen and rectified it most sumptuously, at his own charges;
and to this day there is his statue therein, but in stone, with his pack
at his back and his dog at his heels; and his memory is also preserved by
the same form or picture in most of the old glass windows, taverns, and
alehouses of that town unto this day.