Once upon a time there were three old women who wanted a pancake to 
eat. The first one brought an egg, the second one milk, and the third one 
grease and flour. When the thick, fat pancake was done, it pulled itself 
up in the pan and ran away from the three old women. It ran and ran, 
steadfastly, steadfastly into the woods. There he came upon a little hare, 
who cried, "Thick, fat pancake, stop! I want to eat you!" 
 The pancake answered, "I have run away from three old women. Can I not 
run away from Hoppity Hare as well?" And it ran steadfastly, steadfastly 
into the woods. 
 Then a wolf came running toward him, and cried, "Thick, fat pancake, 
stop! I want to eat you!" 
 The pancake answered, "I have run away from three old women and Hoppity 
Hare. Can I not run away from Waddly Wolf as well?" And it ran 
steadfastly, steadfastly into the woods. 
 Then a goat came hopping by, and cried, "Thick, fat pancake, stop! I 
want to eat you!" 
 The pancake answered, "I have run away from three old women, Hoppity 
Hare, and Waddly Wolf. Can I not run away from Longbeard Goat as well?" 
And it ran steadfastly, steadfastly into the woods. 
 Then a horse came galloping by, and cried, "Thick, fat pancake, stop! I 
want to eat you!" 
 The pancake answered, "I have run away from three old women, Hoppity 
Hare, Waddly Wolf, and Longbeard Goat. Can I not run away from Flatfoot 
Horse as well?" And it ran steadfastly, steadfastly into the woods. 
 Then a sow came running up, and cried, "Thick, fat pancake, stop! I 
want to eat you!" 
 The pancake answered, "I have run away from three old women, Hoppity 
Hare, Waddly Wolf, Longbeard Goat, and Flatfoot Horse. Can I not run away 
from Oink-Oink Sow as well?" And it ran steadfastly, steadfastly into the 
woods. 
 Then three children came by. They had neither father nor mother, and 
they said, "Dear pancake, stop! We have had nothing to eat the entire 
day!" So the thick, fat pancake jumped into the children's basket and let 
them eat it up.