Folk Tales and Fairy Lore in Gaelic and 
English   
Long ago a poor woman happened to call in a house near Torr-a-Bhuilg.  At 
the time there was no one in the house but the housewife and what 
appeared to be a little child.  The child kept tumbling about on the 
floor and screaming incessantly day and night.
  
The poor woman asked what lad she had there on the floor.  The housewife 
answered that she did not know.  "Well," said the poor woman, "I know 
well what he is, and if you take my advice you will get rid of him; but, 
if not, you will get enough of him."  The housewife said that she would 
take her advice, and the poor woman then told her what she was to do to him.
  
After the poor woman left, the housewife went out and brought in a basket 
of eggs, which she placed in a circle on the floor.  While she was thus 
engaged, the lad kept looking sullenly at her, and said at length, 
roughly:  "What are you doing in that manner?"  "I am making a brewing 
caldron," was the reply.  "A brewing caldron?  I am more than three 
hundred years old and I never yet saw a brewing caldron like that!"
  
The housewife had no longer any doubt of the child being a fairy, but she 
went about her business for a while in her usual way.  Then she looked 
out at the window and assumed a scared look and began to start back as if 
she beheld something dreadful.  The squaller on the floor, looking 
askance at her for a while, at last asked what it was she beheld.  "I 
see," said she, "Torr-a-Bhuilg on fire."  He waited where he was no 
longer, but spring out at the door saying:  "My hammers and my anvil and 
my bellows," and after that he was never seen again.