Once, a long time ago, the antelope and the deer happened to meet on the 
prairie. They spoke together, giving each other the news, each telling 
what he had seen and done. After they had talked for a time the antelope 
told the deer how fast he could run, and the deer said that he could run 
fast too, and before long each began to say that he could run faster than 
the other. So they agreed that they would have a race to decide which 
could run the faster, and on this race they bet their galls. When they 
started, the antelope ran ahead of the deer from the very start and won 
the race and so took the deer's gall.   
But the deer began to grumble and said, "Well, it is true that out here on 
the prairie you have beaten me, but this is not where I live. I only come 
out here once in a while to feed or to cross the prairie when I am going 
somewhere. It would be fairer if we had a race in the timber. That is my 
home, and there I can run faster than you. I am sure of it."   
The antelope felt so glad and proud that he had beaten the deer in the 
race that he was sure that wherever they might run he could beat him, so 
he said, "All right, I will run you a race in the timber. I have beaten 
you out here on the flat and I can beat you there." On this race they bet 
their dew-claws.   
They started and ran this race through the thick timber, among the bushes, 
and over fallen logs, and this time the antelope ran slowly, for he was 
afraid of hitting himself against the trees or of falling over the logs. 
You see, he was not used to this kind of traveling. So the deer easily 
beat him and took his dew-claws. Since that time the deer has had no gall 
and the antelope no dew-claws.