Gently? 
The Race of the Buffalo and the Hare. 
 
In olden times, so we are told by those who know best, there was constant
strife between the hares and the buffaloes. Each of them contended for the
honor of being the most swift footed.
 
Both did run very fast, and neither would give in to the other. So it went
on year after year, and there seemed to be no end to the strife. Tired of
this constant fight, one day the hare said to the buffalo, "Let us try a
race together and settle this quarrel once for all."
 
The buffalo was well contented with the proposal, and they agreed to race
one another. When the day came, the hare, putting his ears back, started
the race. He ran so fast that you might have said he was flying upon the
ground.
 
But the buffalo was a match for him. He went thundering away, his hoofs
splashing the mud and raising seas of mire. The earth shook at his furious
tread. He soon overtook the breathless hare which was running, panting as
fast as its little legs could carry it.
 
Then a thought struck the hare, and he cried to the buffalo, "Ho, friend!
Take heed how you are thundering along. The earth is shaking, and if you
are not careful, the earth will give way under you. See how it is rocking
under your feet."
 
When the buffalo heard the hare's story, he stopped still for a while
bewildered, and then, being frightened, lest the earth should give way
under him and he sink beneath, he checked his pace and began to walk
slowly and tread gently.
 
That was just what the hare had wanted, and pulling a long nose at the
buffalo, he ran swiftly by, leaving the buffalo a long way behind. Thus he
won the race, and there was no longer any strife between the hares and the
buffaloes.
 
But ever since the buffalo walks slowly and treads lightly upon the
ground.