A woman so loved her husband that she vowed not to remarry following
his death. Thus she had a wooden statue carved and painted that resembled
her husband in form, shape, and size. She called it "Wooden Johannes," and
it was to serve as her companion in place of her husband if she were to
become a widow. 
 Her fears were confirmed, and her husband did indeed die. After she had
mourned in earnest for almost half a year, her grief became somewhat
easier to bear. 
 One evening she was invited out by her relatives, and she gave her maid
orders not to forget to lay Wooden Johannes into her bed as soon as he was
warm, and then to come and get her. It was her custom to put Wooden
Johannes into her bed every evening before she went to bed. During the day
he stood next to the stove. 
 The maid thought that the time was right to look after her own kin,
considering that her mistress would be in a good mood following her
evening out. Therefore she sent for her brother, who was a well-formed and
good-looking young man. She told him her plan and led him to her
mistress's bed. She then hid Wooden Johannes somewhere else and went to
get her mistress. Arriving back home with her, she lit a candle in the
mistress's bedroom, and then went to bed herself. 
 Now this Johannes warmed the mistress so well, that she did not remove
him from her bed as soon as he had cooled down, as was her practice with
the other one, but kept him by her side until morning. 
 The maid came, as she did every morning, and asked if she should go to
the market and buy something. The mistress asked her to look for some good
fish to eat. 
 "Gladly," answered the maid, "but if I do get some, I'm sure that there
is not enough dry wood in the house to fry them properly." 
 "Oh," said the mistress, "then use Wooden Johannes. He is dry enough.
Chop him up and cook with him as long as he lasts." 
 Thus the maid brought her brother to great wealth, for he warmed the
mistress so well that she kept him and married him.